In this lecture we will learn about meta tags tags that allow us to specify meta data about an HCM M-L
web page.
The three metadata tags are metor head and base metadata is self-describe information about an HMO document
specifying information like the author and a list of keywords on the HVM l page are examples of meta
data.
The HVM l met a tag allows us to provide this information the metal tag is an empty tag so it doesn't
have a closing tag but it does have several attributes that we can use to store information about the
H.T. M-L document meditate do not alter the appearance of your webpage.
They just add internal content that can be parsed by web browsers and search engines et cetera.
The metal tag goes in between the opening and closing head tags in your HVM document.
Let's add a metal tag between the opening and closing head tags on our Web page.
The metadata tag is different from other HTL elements we have learned because it provides us with attributes
that we supply with custom content.
In other words we are giving custom information to the attributes of this tag that can be read by search
engines and the web browser.
This will make more sense as we get further into this example.
There are four such attributes that we can add inside of the metal tag.
They are name content scheme and H TTP equiv.
The name attributes specifies the name for the property the content attribute specifies the properties
value.
The scheme specifies a scheme to interpret what we specified in the content attribute the HTP equiv
attribute can be used to refresh the page set a cookie and do other things related to HTP response message
headers.
Let's use the name attribute to specify a name for the property.
We will give the name attribute a value of author.
Then we can use the content attribute to specify the name of the author together the name and content
attributes create a key value pair that can be interpreted by the browser.
Note that we can also have multiple meditate eggs that each defines their own custom attribute name
and content.
To illustrate this example let's add another method tag that lists the keywords on our Web page.
We can use the HDP equiv attribute to redirect or web page to another Web page after a specified delay
to do so.
We need three things.
First we need to add another meditate a tag tour HVM Al code and give it an HTP equiv attribute with
the value of refresh to do so we need three things.
First we need to add another Medhat tag tour HVM l code and give it an H GGP equiv attribute with a
value of refresh.
Next we need to specify the content attribute and give it a value of the number of seconds for the delay.
I will add a content with a value of 3 specifying that the web page should redirect to another you are.
After 3 seconds.
Note that we also add a semi-colon after the number.
The third and last thing that we need to specify is that you are able to redirect to.
This will also be appended to the content value and will come after the semi-colon.
The format is the word you are Arel then an equal sign and then the web address that we want the user
to be redirected to.
Let's go to the web browser.
When we run this code in the web browser We will see that a web page redirects to the specified you
URL.
After a delay of 3 seconds then we will jump back to the editor and look at another example.
The head tag is considered another tag that allows us to add metadata to a web page and HVM all this
element functions as a container that holds several important HVM l elements inside of the head element.
We are always required to specify a title for each tremelo document using the title element the style
and script elements that we use to add CSSA and javascript code directly inside of our HVM page can
go here as well as we learned in this lecture.
Mehta elements are also added to the head element of an HMO web page.
The link element is used to link external files to our HMO.
As we have learned in previous lectures the no script tag is a tag that we can use to define alternate
content.
If the user has a browser that doesn't support scripts or if users have javascript disabled in their
browser this element can be used inside the body element of HVM document.
For this example let's add a script element that sends an alert to our webpage.
Then we will add a no script element that fires if Javascript is disabled in the browser running the
code.
Let's go to the web browser and run this code.
You will notice that the alert is displayed.
Let's temporarily disable Javascript in our browser so that we can see the effect of using the no script
tag.
We will go to the top right corner of the browser and click on the chrome settings menu.
Then we will go to settings search for the word privacy and then click on the content settings
we will click the toggle to disable Javascript in our browser
then we will drag over our HVM file again to run our code
and we should see the text that we added in the no script element up here instead of the alert to re-enable
javascript.
We can click the icon that has appeared at the top of the page go to manage and re-enable javascript
for our browser then we will jump back to the editor.
The third H.T. email metadata tag we have access to is the base tag which also goes inside of the head
element in an HMO document.
This tag lets us specify a default URL for a web page.
Then all of our relative you are allies will be based off of the you or as specified here.
We can also specify a default target for all of the links on our Web page for example our target value
of underscore blank will make all of the links open in a new tab on the browser.
Another neat thing about using the base element to specify this information is that any relative image
sources on our Web page will be searched for in the base Tref.
In other words if we have the relative source logo hyphen Curole dot SVGA in our HVM our code it will
be treated as though it were appended to the base.
In other words the full u r l would be a colon slash slash www.youtube.com slash static ax slash you
to me Slash images slash V-6.
And then finally slash logo hyphen quarrell that SVGA.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code assuming we typed everything correctly we should see the
image displayed on our Web page as a web developer.
It is important that you understand how to use the meta head and base tags to add meta data to your
web page and the next lecture we will learn about tags nuda HVM L5.